Implementing a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) for training on a ChEMBL SMILES dataset in PyTorch involves several steps. Below is a guide on how to set up and train an RNN for this purpose.

Steps:
Data Preparation:

Load and preprocess the SMILES data.
Convert SMILES strings to a format suitable for RNN training (e.g., one-hot encoding or integer encoding of characters).
RNN Model Definition:

Define an RNN architecture suitable for sequence data.
Implement the forward pass of the RNN.
Training Loop:

Define the loss function and optimizer.
Implement the training loop to train the RNN on the SMILES dataset.
Evaluation:

Implement a method to evaluate the trained model.

Explanation:
Device Handling: The device variable is set to cuda if a GPU is available, otherwise it falls back to cpu.
DataLoader: Each batch of data is moved to the device before processing.
Model and Data to Device: The model and all relevant data tensors are moved to the GPU using .to(device).
Evaluate Function: The evaluation function now also moves the data to the appropriate device.
Generalization: The train and evaluate functions are generalized to accept a device parameter to specify where the computation should happen.

To parallelize the GPU training process, you can use torch.nn.DataParallel to distribute the model across multiple GPUs.
This method replicates the model on each GPU and splits the input data across them.

Explanation:
Argument Parsing: The script uses argparse to accept command-line arguments for the SMILES file, maximum SMILES length, number of epochs, batch size, embedding dimension, hidden dimension, and output dimension.
Modified Main Script: The main script has been updated to use these command-line arguments instead of hardcoded values.
Running the Script: You can now run the script from the command line and specify the input SMILES file and other parameters:

python your_script.py --smiles_file chembl_smiles.tsv --max_len 100 --epochs 10 --batch_size 64 --embedding_dim 128 --hidden_dim 256 --output_dim 128

